6.0 English From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6 minute English from BBCLearningEnglish. I'm Phil
And I'm Pipper. In this episode we're discussing etiquette. The rules about what makes polite behavior
and in particular the do's and don'ts about what you should and shouldn't do when eating.
So Phil, what's the worst thing someone can do while eating in your opinion?
For me it's being very noisy when you do it. I can't stand it.
Hmm, okay. I don't have too many rules about eating. But I was always told growing up that you shouldn't have your elbows on the table.
And I never really understood why, but I always remember that one.
So we'll be hearing more about meantime manners from some college students and an expert on British etiquette.
And as usual we'll be learning some useful new words and phrases, all of which you can find on our website
BBCLearningEnglish.com
But first I have a question for you Pipper.
Ideas about polite behavior change a lot from country to country. So when BBC program the food chain
asked listeners from around the world about eating manners in their country,
what do you think was the most common complaint? Was it a people eating with their hands?
Be people eating noiseily or see people burping at the table.
Hmm, I don't think it's people eating with their hands because lots of people around the world do that as kind of their normal way of eating.
But maybe it's be people eating noiseily, I think. Like you mentioned Phil, that's quite annoying.
Well we'll find out the answer later in the program. The food chain also interviewed students at London City of Westminster College
about family dinner times. Samuel is 19 and from Sierra Leone and IA is 18 and British but her family are from Iraq.
Let's listen as they chat with BBC World Services the food chain.
Yeah, I would say first impressions really do matter because it also is really important how you portray yourself
how you present yourself to the person.
What I don't want to see is any loud chewing or the mouth open, please and thank you.
I would like to see though, I contact, having a conversation using your cutlery. Sometimes and I
think this could be like picky for everyone else but having a tissue or an appkin on your lap,
just in case you spill anything. The students think etiquette is important.
Samuel says it's about making a good first impression. Your first impression is the opinion you
form about someone when you meet them for the first time. For IA, eating with your mouth open is
definitely rude. She also thinks people should use an napkin although that could be seen as picky.
Picky here means being too strict about the rules. For this group of students, showing respect
and appreciation for the meal is very important. This idea is common across most if not all
cultures throughout history. So imagine a scene from a TV show like Game of Thrones. Two
enemy forces have stopped fighting, made peace and now gather for a meal. The leaders clink glasses
meaning they lift up and touch drinks and make a toast. They hold up a glass of alcohol and drink
it to show respect. Now keep that image in mind because we're going to hear British etiquette
coach, Rupert Weston explaining why people clink glasses. Here is talking to Ruth Alexander,
presenter of BBC World Service program The Food Chain. Perhaps the simplest example is,
is why do we clink glasses when we have a toast? If you clink glasses you're sloppin a bit of
your drink into his cup and he's sloppin a bit of drink into your cup and therefore by having
that toast you are showing up, I trust you you trust me and that's why we do it.
If you've poisoned my drink that's now sloped into your cup you won't drink it. Correct.
Huts at the table, we're hearing from BBC World Service listeners that that is a no-no. Is that right?
It's not something I would do. In fact I would not be wearing a hat inside anyway.
So Phil, when we clink glasses in a toast, some of my drink might spill into your glass and some
of your drink might spill into mine. Historically this mixing of drinks was a way of proving
the drinks were not poisoned. Ruth also asked about wearing hats at the table and
Rupert calls this a no-no. A no-no is an informal phrase for something that is considered socially
unacceptable. Etiquette varies a lot over time and culture, but the essential point is always to show
appreciation by doing some things and avoiding others and speaking of things to avoid, what was
the answer to your question Phil? Okay well I asked you what listeners of the food chain
thought was the biggest etiquette problem when people are eating. You said that it was people
eating noiseily and I can reveal. That's the right answer. It was people eating noiseily.
Okay let's recap the vocabulary we've learnt about meal time, do's and don'ts.
Rules about how you should and shouldn't behave. Your first impression of someone is the
when meeting them for the first time. The word picky is used to describe someone who is
too strict about rules. If you clink glasses you touch two drinking glasses together as a
gesture of friendship. Probably because you're making a toast, a show of respect that involves
drinking from a glass of alcohol. And finally a no-no is an informal word for something considered
socially unacceptable. Once again our six minutes are up, but if you'd like to find out more
about dining etiquette then head over to our website BBCLearningEnglish.com to download a program
worksheet and try the quiz. See you again soon, but for now it's goodbye. Bye!